that got 2 million views when he would
average 35,000 views. And Jelly and
Moure who did I made a clear sandwich,
we saw that doing well and we pitched it
to Mike and that became him his most
viewed video of all time with 25 million
and that led to a 6 million views video
and then he did one more recently that
led to another 9 million views. So
that's an extra 15 million views.
>> That's Richard, the YouTube strategist.
He's the co-founder of a software tool
called One of 10 and his team has
quietly been behind the scenes of some
of the biggest channels on the planet
helping them rack up over 2 billion
views and it's not luck. Richard and his
team obsess over the data.
>> We went through over 200,000 outliers to
see like what makes a video go viral.
>> And in this video he shares it all step
by step.
>> Basically there are four phases of
ideation: audience, research, remakes,
validation.
>> You'll even learn how you can get more
views out of some of your old videos.
>> Callaway, that video that was stuck in
like 10, 20,000 views became a 150,000
views video. So it's never too late.
>> So strap in, grab a notebook, it's time
to learn.
>> Basically me and my team, we we try to
break down everything. Why does a video
get go viral? And in the end like 80,
85% of the reason why a video blows up
basically is because of the idea, title,
and thumbnail, right? Basically there
are four phases of ideation which we
call ARRV which is a audience, research,
remakes, and validation. So first things
first is audience.
Audience, basically as a creator your
goal is to understand exactly who who
who is watching you, right? Like what
are their goals? What are their pain
points? Basically why they're watching
you. And like that you'll be able to
maximize your views for your audience
without going too broad. I'll give an
example. Let's say FilmBooth, popular
YouTube educator, had hundreds of
thousands of subscribers and millions of
views. But the problem was he was going
too broad. He was reaching video editors
and begin- beginners when as an educator
his his offer was more tailored to
business people and people more
more advanced in the in the YouTube
space. So, what did he do? He just
completely stopped uploading on on that
big channel and went in a much smaller
one at the time which had 10,000 but
only focused on the avatar of his
audience which were business people or
professionals, uh, people in the
education space. And that led to him
make going from $100,000 per month to
$400,000 per month.
And so that shows really the importance
of who's your audience.
>> This comes up in our community from time
to time. People will realize that, "Hey,
there's actually a segment of my
audience that I want to serve more or
focus on, but they're only a segment of
my current channel." The hope is they
can kind of pivot that channel towards
that audience over time because they're
afraid of doing this thing Ed did of
losing hundreds of thousands of
subscribers that they've worked to
build. So, when does it make sense in
your mind for somebody to rip the
band-aid and start a second or a new
channel?
>> That's a really tough question cuz
it depends, but in the end if you've
been uploading for a while, if you've
been optimizing for weeks and months
trying to get that market share of
audience that you want, then yeah, maybe
it's worth to just create a new channel
cuz I've seen a lot of channels where
well, some they've done paid ads which
which is really bad. Some they they will
have gotten one video that went mega
viral, but brought in the the wrong
audience. And then they've tried for
months and even years to try to get out
of it and they didn't succeed when they
could have started a new channel. And
so, I would say to to rip the band-aid
sooner than than later from my
experience, from what I've seen out
there.
>> Can you expand on what happens when
somebody has a video that goes
really viral, but it's the wrong
audience, and why that's problematic?
>> Yeah, so the thing is, it'll go viral,
and let's say you're aiming, I don't
know, for 35-year-old audience, but then
that video brought in a bunch of
15-year-olds. The thing is, your next
videos that are tailored to the
35-year-olds will be shown on the
YouTube homepage of those 15-year-olds,
and those will not click, and YouTube
will see that as a signal that, "Hey,
it's uh it's actually a bad video. It's
not getting those clicks. People are not
watching until the end. Uh AVD is low,
CTR is low, everything is low. So, then
why am I going to push this video?" But
then, if you do that repeatedly by
showing to those 15-year-olds, which
YouTube thinks is your audience, then
it's it's it's a it's a loop uh
downwards, basically.
>> So, this obviously worked for Ed. He he
pulled the the trigger, started a second
channel,
literally quadrupled his income per
month.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, focus all in on the
on that second channel, uh but really,
as you can see with the the video
titles, it is really just focused to to
business people
and
uh and professionals. It it made sense
with his offer, a good product market
fit, and uh that's what's important for
for your audience, basically, especially
in the education space, is to always
remember who's your audience, who you're
targeting, what is the pain point you're
trying to to find for them, to to solve
for them, and then you just rinse
repeat. Okay, so here is phase two,
which is research. So, here, your goal
is to find outliers on YouTube and see
which one have a a good format and good
interest topics, which I'm going to get
to. But first, what is exactly an
outlier? So, if you think about a
channel that normally gets 100,000
views, but one gets a million, that's a
10x outlier. And the reason those
outliers do well is because of idea
style thumbnails. So, here for example
on your channel, Jay,
uh
this had 200,000 views uh 2 years ago.
Well, that's when at that time you were
averaging uh 20,000. So, then that's a
10x outlier here. And then here is a 4.5
million, that's 150x versus the videos
around it. Uh
versus the average of the videos around
that video. You need to inspire from
those videos that have performed well in
the past. They are data-backed and see
why they did well.
And then after phase three where you're
remixing into your own style. So, again,
with my team, we've broken down into
five methods uh of research of of
finding those outliers. So, you have
inside your channel, inside your niche,
adjacent niche, outside your niche, and
external, which uh I I I'm going to
explain one by one. Now that you know
what's a an outlier for those who didn't
know,
there are two things when you're looking
at those outliers that are important to
keep in mind. One is the format. The
format is what determines the structure
of the video and gives context to the
topic. And the interest topic is
basically, you could see that as
something that gets a lot of views
inside a niche.
Let me give a
a clear example. Let's say Let's say
here, the format is I tried every
But then the interest topic, so
something that gets a lot of views
inside your niche, changes every time
from airline to train to Airbnb.
And then you can see it the other way
around where interest topic here is
water parks, but then the format is
changed every time, right? From
I tried five levels of water park,
24-hour overnight water park, and so on.
>> So, you're saying when I'm looking at
these
different videos, I'm searching for
outliers that I can model my future
videos after, and each of these outliers
have within them these two aspects for
me to kind of play with these levers.
You have the interest topic and the
format. I need to understand that both
of these things can be a lever towards
being an outlier, and I can mess with
either one.
>> Exactly. Because there's a reason those
those that well, like I tried five five
levels of water park in the
entertainment niche will do well cuz
there's progression, there's natural
progression. You want to see from the
the lowest to the biggest water parks,
how cool it is, and and it's and water
park does well because it's so broadly
appealing, for example. But those you
might not have thought of with a blank
sheet of paper, but by researching
around,
you get to to see what has worked and
then that inspires you into your own
niche. So, this is in the entertainment
niche, but it works in the educational
niche.
Yeah, as well. So, let's start with
method one inside channel.
When I joined this
this creator,
he he used to do all kinds of skills
type videos.
Why I proposed I tested the world's five
deadliest weapons, which led to a 2x
outlier at 10 million views,
was because of
the phases I said. So, phase one,
your is is trying to understand his
audience. So, I asked him like who
recognized him on the streets, who
who are the people commenting, and
basically they were like teenage boys in
the end. That
was phase one. Then phase two is
seeing what has worked in the past and
see if there's a ways to if there are
ways to double down.
And so here I I would see the interest
topics of karambit knife or nunchucks or
butterfly knife,
all weapon types videos, right?
And I also saw in the on the channel
that he would try like I tested I don't
know 126 skills. This is what I learn.
And and those would get millions of
views as well. So I just combined it
both combined a few weapons inside one
video natural progression and that led
to it that 10 million views video.
>> I see. So the format is I tested and the
interest topic in his case was
some sort of deadly or intense weapon.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, exactly cuz karambit knife
nunchucks butterfly knife they all had
like similar characteristics, right?
Like weapons types content. So I was
like this could be good if to combine it
all with sword and other types of weapon
in there. And turned out it worked out
quite well.
And then that led to doubling down even
more inside the channel turning weapons
into ancient weapons and that led to a 6
million views video. And then he did one
more recently like years after that that
for his video.
And again with ancient weapons and that
led to another 9 million views. So
that's an extra 15 million views because
we understood who is the audience what
is the format that worked and what's the
interest topic to play with.
>> It's so interesting that he posted
essentially
the same video with a slightly different
title like he didn't put a number on it
it wasn't the five deadliest but it's
literally everything else is the same.
Different thumbnail. But that video
there had 50% more views than the
previous version.
>> Yeah, exactly because that that's maybe
like two years apart those two.
And so there's a new audience that came
in, right? But still in the same
content strategy where it would bring in
the the right audience. So then with
those new viewers that that he kept
building over time
it made them interested in in this type
of content. So creators that end up to
the next level, don't only um
double down, they triple down, they
quadruple down. So, like here for
example,
with hangtime, he he did I melted every
gum, that got 11 million views.
But and so the I melted every is the
format that worked and then the interest
topic changes every time.
Same for I cooked 100 years of school
lunch, that gets 20 million views. So,
you take the format of I cooked 100
years of and then just change the
interest topic every time. So, if you
think about it, had these two not done
the double down, triple down, quadruple
down, they would have lost on literally
tens of millions of views. So, it's
super important for any creator
listening that once you have a format
that works and that makes sense with
your audience, to really try to think,
okay, what are different interest topic
that would make sense for that format
that work well.
>> Guilty. I've definitely had successful
videos and I'm like, okay, well, I
covered that and moved on.
>> Exactly.
All right, method two is inside your
niche. Simple, you look inside your
niche and you see what format is working
across your competitors or other
YouTubers in the space
inside your niche and you see if you can
change the interest topic for you. For
example, here in the gardening niche,
you have this format of buried something
and then this happened.
So, buried common kitchen scraps and
then this happened, but then you change
the interest topic of kitchen scraps to
bananas or to forest in the ashes and
then this happened.
Or you can see more educational uh
six years of trading knowledge in 20
minutes
can lead to 27 years of trading
knowledge. Like everyone has different
ways that they they've grown as a trader
and so or as a crypto trader even and so
that's how you're you're thinking of
format, but then remixing into your own
style.
Here is more in the gaming niche, where
we look at the other way around, where
you have the interest topic of, let's
say, zero brain water or grow garden,
but then you change the format every
time based on the game.
Method three is adjacent niche. Your
goal here is to find
channels that are parallel to yours. So,
like similar in the characteristics. Let
me let me explain with a few examples.
For example, here,
again, 30 years of business knowledge is
in 2 hours 26 minutes. That got 15
million views, which went insane and got
replicated all around. Why? Because it
it makes sense. It it attracts the
audience that he's looking for. People
are trying to learn. They're trying to
make money. And so, you in the make
money niche,
you have investing knowledge, you have
sales knowledge. That's totally
transferable to take that format, but
then remix it into your own style.
Same in the YouTube space, YouTube
education space. You could see that as
parallel. Why? Well, one, you're trying
to grow money. Well, here you're trying
to grow views. And so, it's it's very
parallel. And maybe there are things in
the the money making space that would
make sense for the
YouTube space.
Maybe a little less obvious. You have
video editing into into music
production.
Again,
at first, you might not think you could
inspire from one or the other, but when
you think about it, it makes sense. Both
have similar characters
similar characteristics in the sense
that
both you're working on the computer,
working on the timeline, basically
trying to turn raw assets into a
finished product. So, when you see five
different editors on So, I hired five
different editors on Fiverr and here's
the result.
That can become
paid for mixers to mix the same song,
and here's the result.
And so, that's one way. Another more
concrete way, basically that that's one
of our consulting clients in the trading
niche.
We again turned
YouTube into trading. Growing views,
growing money. So, this is boring, but
you'll hit a thousand subscribers
We took that format, brought it to this
scalping strategy is boring, but made me
a profitable trader, and that led him to
getting 300,000 views and a 3x outlier.
And so, that's that's one way to those
are ways to to to transfer from one to
the other using adjacent niches. And
then, we have method four, which is a
outside niche.
Basically, you at this point you're
getting inspired by literally any video
out there. You're trying to see if
there's a format that will work for you.
Here's another example with a client of
ours is I tried every legal performance
enhancer from Will Tennyson got 7
million views. Well, that was actually
inspired by
the entertainment niche. I tried every
legal addiction,
which had gotten 9 million views.
And so, by seeing that and funnily
enough, that also led to all kinds of
niches taking inspiration from those
since they've seen it do well, they just
replicated it for them. It worked in the
gaming niche. I tried every legal
Fortnite cheat. Or, it worked in the
beauty niche. I tried every legal beauty
enhancement. And even in the criminal
niche, I tried every legal criminal
activity.
>> What does that even mean? Every legal
criminal activity? I guess I I guess
that's why I click.
>> But, it it turned out to get over
million views, so
>> I I that's why we click. It's a good
It's a good open loop.
>> Exactly. Or here's a another example
with
with a with a client of ours, Dr. Mike
Diamond. So, the Japanese rule to
staying lean
got 500,000 views. And that was actually
inspired by two videos, two outliers.
So, one, the Chinese secret to saving
money revealed. So, we took that format,
the Chinese secret, uh but uh transform
it into the Japanese rule.
And then at the bottom, why is it so
easy to be thin in Japan? Got 24 million
views. So, the thin in Japan um
being thin interest topic, combined it
both, became the Japanese rule to
staying lean. So, what I said earlier
about understanding why an outlier does
well, here, if you think about it, most
people most most most of the viewers uh
would think that a Japanese person is
thin. So, when a
a person from his audience in the
fitness niche sees that title, they're
like, "Oh, that there's already social
proof in in his head that Japanese
people are thin. Maybe there's
information that he doesn't know on how
to be lean." And so, he clicks to to
watch. And that gets 500,000 views. And
to show how Data Back also works across
all niches, so we saw that doing well
for one client, and then we transferred
it into another another channel
uh in the parenting niche.
And it led to the Japanese rule to
obedient children, which got 700,000
views and 4x outlier.
And again, if you think about it, most
people would think that a a Japanese
child is disciplined in in general. And
so, when a parent sees that title,
they're like, "Oh, maybe there's a
there's a way to to better raise my
child that I've never heard of. So, I'm
going to click to
to to to see what what can I learn."
>> But even Uh, the idea of the Japanese
rule, I could probably change that to
really any cult- culture or country that
is not the predominant culture or
country that your videos are typically
for. Because if if my audience was
Japanese viewers, they'd probably be
like, I already know this rule. But an
American audience is probably like, oh,
this is like some some secret of a
different culture that I don't
understand. So, this even this format
could have
dozens, hundreds of variants, I suppose.
>> No, yeah, exactly. Actually, we saw that
recently, like chick taste out. So, we
did that, and then we saw other like
Faces channels taking
why Japanese rule did well, and they
just did the Korean method to count
tantrums in 60 seconds, and that led to
a 1.9 million views. And then they went
with the French rule as well, and that
got to 360,000 views.
So, it is quite interesting how once a
format works, it can
can be
like you said, you change the interest
topic inside of why it did well.
And find try to find interesting way.
And yeah, I just want to make it clear
that in the outside niche, you can
literally transform one one format into
the other. So, like 30 years of business
knowledge in 2 hours 26 minutes
can become 9 years of photography
knowledge or to music, or even in the
gaming niche, 10 years of aiming
knowledge at 500,000 views. And and from
tennis here to filmmaking, and even as
niche as 9 years of camera setting
knowledge in 29 minutes. And so, that
got 22 million views when he would
average 35,000 views. So, as you guys
can see, you can literally take any
any niche and then just transfer it into
yours. Wow.
And then we have method five. Yes,
exactly, external. Uh, which is outside
uh, YouTube. So, from movies, TV shows,
books. For example, here you've got
America's Got Talent that became
Discord's Got Talent, or a talk show
becoming The Hot Ones, or cooking shows
with the Babish World, and even like the
mobile app Tinder becoming a popular
format uh for Jubilee, Sidemen, and and
hundreds of channels out there.
>> That's something that I haven't thought
about or heard talked about very much at
all is like, can you take
formats from legacy media or even just
other forms of entertainment and bring
them into a YouTube context? I think
that's really interesting.
>> Yeah, cuz the
concept of data back works out there,
right? Those shows did well, got
millions of views on on TV. Those mobile
apps got
uh their their hands on everywhere. So,
you try to understand why outside of
YouTube those things did well and see if
there's a way to repurpose into into
yours.
>> Okay, so we've looked at our audience,
we've found five ways of doing research.
What comes next in your process?
>> Yeah, it's uh remixing. So, you have the
format, the interest topic, and you you
can also add a viral vector, which I'm
going to explain, which leads to your uh
viral idea. So, the three ways of uh
turning those ideas
uh those um those formats is one is
escalation. You can go from let's say a
gym membership that's 30K per year to to
ones that's 10K per month. That led to a
7 million views video to a 10 million
one. Or you have that Ryan series going
one week, 30 days, even 50 days with a
different interest topic.
Or number two, you can go the other way
around. You see a format that's work,
maybe there's a way to inverse it. Here
you have the world's largest becomes the
world's smallest Nerf gun. 48 million
views becomes 74 million views 8 years
later.
And finally, you can replace interest
topic for the format that uh you see
working, which we've been talking
here.
And so, So three combined plus the viral
vector. So just a reminder, interest
topic is something that gets a lot of
views inside your niche. Well, viral
vector is something that gets a lot of
views outside your niche. And so, for
example, Lamborghini works across
niches. Squid Game, at the time when it
when it was super popular, it would work
in gaming, food, literally any niche
possible, Squid Game would would would
go viral.
Japanese, across the board, works well.
We saw with parenting, fitness, DIY,
fast food, and even first class. So, I
want to give a concrete example. I
interviewed Dantrick, and he told me how
he got his um
his most viewed video. Basically, he saw
the format of I tried every
working wall for Ryan here.
And then he took the viral vector of
first class. He knew that that worked
across YouTube.
And then combined with the interest
topic of his channel around gaming,
combined it all together, which led to I
tried gaming in every airplane seat,
which became a 39 over 39 million views
video.
>> Hm.
>> But here's another example with again
Mike Shake that I'm I'm going to
explain. Basically,
the viral format viral vector here is
invisible. Here you have this video,
this outlier that got 23 million views
making transparent wood. We have here
Angelia Moore who did I made a clear
sandwich, was a huge outlier for her at
the time because she saw uh making
transparent wood on on of ten.com, and
that became a huge outlier for her. So,
we saw that doing well across YouTube,
the invisible part. And we pitched it to
Mike, and that became I built a
transparent katana, which became his
most viewed video of all time with 25
million views. So, that's like how we we
think around for for the first three
phases.
>> I really like these ideas for remixing,
escalation,
inverting, replacing. Specifically,
escalation and inversion are things I
haven't thought about, which I think
could be really, really interesting. You
know, we were showing that example of
Simon Squid Squib of X years of
knowledge in this many minutes. You
could try to inverse that and say like
30 years of business knowledge in 5
minutes.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, like how do you make that
really small? Um it's already kind of
crazy to say 30 years in 46 minutes or
whatever it was, but going smaller I
think people would be like, "Okay, prove
it."
>> Yeah, or like 30 years of business
mistakes instead of knowledge, for
example. So you're like inverting, okay,
that was the pros, what were the cons of
running 30 years of business knowledge
of business. So yeah, it's like trying
to see the opposite of it and see if it
makes sense for for your audience.
Finally, we have phase four of ideation,
which is the validation part. So we have
a checklist that that that we like to go
through, like is it feasible? Uh how
unique is the idea? Is the packaging
good for title and thumbnail, which
we're going to get to?
Uh seasonality, for example, you might
want to do ideas around fitness if
you're a vlogger or something uh more in
at the beginning of the year versus uh
the end of the year. You should try to
always experiment one in four uploads.
>> What does that mean?
>> So basically three videos that you know
are formats that work well, that have
worked well in the past for you. So
inside your channel, you just try to to
keep doubling down on the formats that
have worked well, just changing the
interest topics. And then one that is
like a total totally new experiment,
just to see what happens cuz that new
experiments
then becomes a new format when when one
of them breaks out. So it's always uh
good to to continuously um
experiment, which I've seen a lot of
YouTubers not do. They'll just rinse and
repeat what they know work, and that
that just leads to a channel going down
over time. So So always need to to try
to keep fresh and try to basically find
more unique angles. And then we also
have like when you have a bunch of
ideas, what is the content for it? What
is the video duration for it? And so
maybe I can talk a bit about a a report
we did. Basically
using our software, we went through over
200,000 outliers on the on one of 10.
That's worth over 60 billion views,
50,000 channels to see like what makes a
video become an outlier. What makes a
video go viral? And as you guys can see,
this is pretty interesting. Okay, at the
beginning if you do too short your
videos, they're competing with like
shorts, they're competing against other
shorter videos.
Well, that in in general as a median
views, it'll lead to to lower views. You
can see maybe the sweet spot is between
20 25 minutes, 20 to 30 minutes. That's
basically the time it takes to finish
lunch or to to quickly over a break to
to watch something. And so the that in
general will lead to to a higher median
views across all niches. But then what's
interesting is when you go over 80
minutes, so the 1-hour plus videos, it
picks up it picks back up. And that's
because
TV is being pushed a lot by YouTube
because if you think about it, it makes
sense. In the end they make more money
with longer videos because people are
staying more.
On TV there's less distraction. So when
you're on on mobile, you get
notifications from friends, family.
There's like a hundred apps that you can
just switch to. Whereas when you're
watching on TV, well, there's really
just one thing that that you're doing.
So it's a win-win for everyone if it's
being pushed to TV, which is why one of
the reasons why longer videos are are
getting more views in the end as you
guys can see here. So interesting. And
there's a lot about um podcasting right
now.
A lot of a lot of podcasters are doing
longer and longer interviews. So I'm
looking at the the middle of this curve
from a podcaster's lens and saying,
"Okay, from about 2 hours
up until almost 3 hours,
that's like the big hump, 2 to 3 hours.
And then there's
this
far end, which is gosh, 4 hours.
Um wild.
>> Yeah, but it's I will say the sample
size goes down as as as it goes up here.
But also you need to think that
there's not that many videos at those
length that will be high quality, let's
say. So if you're one of the ones inside
your niche that do a very long video
that is high quality, there's more
chances that that gets pushed cuz uh
maybe it's less it's it's it's basically
much less competitive. And here you can
see we looked into per per niches
basically, the video duration per niche,
and we could see where it peaks on
inside each niche.
Uh and it it kind of makes sense when
you think about it. Like for tech, for
example, you have 28 minutes
uh versus vlog being 14. 28, you want
them to be longer because people are
watching for those tech reviews. They
want the in-depth review of a of a phone
that just came out. Uh same for
engineering and DIY at 26 minutes here
versus uh 14 where that's more of a
casual entertainment uh that's
bingeable. Same for for gaming around 21
minutes.
And so since it's interesting to see and
that doesn't mean you have to do exactly
21-minute videos, but just means that
maybe there's higher probability of of
success if you go around that area
instead of shorter. In the end, you you
try to go for longer in the end. Very
interesting. I love this data. I love
seeing some of these things from your
study.
>> That's the goal to help all of you guys
use that report and and try to grow on
YouTube. Finally
on on that checklist we we have the tab,
the total addressable viewership because
you can have a format that work, but how
do you know which interest topic to
choose as your next upload? So that's
where you try to think which one's the
which interest topic will maximize views
while not going too broad. So here for
example, in the entertainment niche,
I melted every gum is much more unique
um much more remarkable than I mix every
fruit, which sounds a bit more normal.
Or here for example, I cooked 100 years
of school lunch is much more relatable
to a broader um
general
uh audience than uh well hopefully than
jail food and hospital food.
>> Okay, very interesting. I mean, this
it's always good to be reminded that
so much of what makes a video successful
comes down to the idea and the
packaging.
And so this covered everything around
really kind of both idea and packaging.
The big question for me still is like
how do I make this process something I
can easily do in whatever time I'm able
to allocate and obviously one of 10 was
built to make that easier. So could you
show us how to use one of 10 to do this
research process?
>> Yeah, of course. So you can just click
random, which which I quite like.
>> Is there a threshold in how many views
is being pulled in when I just hit
random? How does random pull videos in?
>> Random will will will take any video at
all that that wasn't outlier, but then
what we do is you can use the the
filters. And one trick people can use
actually is look at
let's say sub 50,000 subscribers or
under 50k,
that got [clears throat] 100k views and
that will probably be at least a 2x
outlier.
And you look at the last 3 months and
then like that you're able to see what
format has worked well for a smaller
channel and maybe that gives you ideas
that you would not have thought of, but
it's also fresh cuz if a small channel
was able to blow up,
then there's a reason that blew up and
that maybe there's a way for you to to
to transform it for you.
For example, let's say I have a data
analysis channel
and I see 10 brain boosting activities
to make your baby a genius. That's
totally outside your niche, but let's
see what comes up. It can become 10
networking tips to propel your data
analysis journey. There you go. That's
one way or 10 resume hacks that will get
you
a data analysis job. Basically, the goal
of one of 10 is that you keep getting
inspired by bouncing around and remixing
those ideas
that have done well for that niche.
>> That's cool. So I can find
whenever I hit random or I set my
filters here and it pops up these ideas,
now besides just being able to save them
and use them as my own inspiration, you
had a button there that basically
remixes that based on my channel.
>> Yeah, exactly. It's not always intuitive
how to transform a format from a totally
different niche into yours. So that we
try to make it as easy as possible for
creators to save time and basically you
can I don't know generate here Canada
tax changes for 2026 what you must know
before the new year, then becomes for a
data analysis channel that is inside
your community
and that becomes data trends for 2026
you need to understand. That's maybe a
new idea that you would not have thought
of or what every data analyst must know
about 2026 jobs.
>> Very cool and you guys have now title
and thumbnail generators inside of one
of 10 also. So can you show us how those
work?
>> But yeah, there's no point in having a
great idea if there's not good
packaging. So, let's talk about titles
and thumbnails. So, what I learned from
Jake Thomas, I've learned that there are
three core drivers of human attention,
fear, curiosity, and desire. Like my
team and I, we tried to see if there
were like other ways, but really we we
we quite like this. And basically, your
goal as a creator is to try to find the
highest find a title that will create
the highest level of intensity for any
of these three. So, like for example,
curiosity.
Your goal here is to create a curiosity
curiosity gap, make your viewer wonder,
to force them to click for the answer.
For example, how does Bluetooth even
exist? You read that, everyone has
Bluetooth on their phones,
headphones,
and you wonder, "Oh, how does it
actually work?" And a more concrete
example is the one which I work with
with Mike Shake. How dangerous is a
whip? At 8 million views video. As you
guys can see on the right,
how dangerous is a whip? How powerful is
a whip? How deadly is a whip? All of
these could have been a title. How
dangerous is a whip? Is the title we
went because it's the most
uh
relatable and the one that leads to the
highest intensity for curiosity. Cuz
when you think about it, everyone
watching, you know what's a whip. You've
seen whips on TVs and movies,
but 99% of people have never used a
whip. So, when they see that title,
they're they're intrigued right away.
Then we've got desire. So, here you want
to sell the result so that the viewer is
interested in the process. So, for
example, how I grew from 0 to 100K
subscribers in 5 months. Uh you see that
title, you want that outcome, you want
that result, so you click to know the
process to to get to it. And then you
have fear. So, here your target viewers
are clicking because they want to avoid
threats or ease their concerns. So, like
here on the right, my worst financial
mistake,
uh you see that from a financial expert,
so you click to avoid those financial
mistakes.
So, those are the three ways, and your
goal is to
get as high level of intensity as
possible. We have a bunch of best
practices, like ideas,
uh like we try to aim for a 50
characters,
uh try to see if the hook would
uh be a good hook for for the title
you're you're thinking of
about. And why 50 characters? Again,
back to the
one of 10 report. As we've seen across
over 200,000 uh outliers, if you put
more words, basically, the median views
go down across the board.
>> Wow.
>> Five words, six words will be much
better than 10 to 15.
>> Wow.
>> And same for characters. I always say
50.
Uh and the report really
uh really um confirms it. Like, if you
go from 30 word 30 characters to 70
characters, that's 60% less views. So,
obviously, 30 characters is really low,
but if you're but you you can see like
from 50 and downwards, uh
it it it it really uh drastically goes
down in terms of median views per video.
>> Very cool.
>> Basically, in the title um phase, you're
trying to find as many angles as
possible and try to figure out which one
uh will hit one of those core drivers of
human attention. And there are three
ways to go about it. You can go from
question to a strong statement or strong
statement to a question. Or number two,
you can uh try to change the words in a
title that you have in mind from can be
I tested every
to I tried every. Or like $1 versus
$1,000 can become level one to level
1,000.
And number three, you can And try to add
a power word. Like, any of the four
videos you see on the right would not
have gotten that many views had there
not been those like emotional triggers
like extremely mind-blowing, subtle,
brutal. And one way that we made it easy
to to get all those title angles is
actually with the one of 10
uh
title generator, which I can show here.
So, this one is one of my favorite uh
features on one of 10. Basically, what
[clears throat] what we said, one is
changing a strong statement into a
questions. So, we can try uh the video
we did earlier. So, uh top data trends
for data analysts
in 2026. Let's say that's the idea. So,
you can input either a title or you can
put in idea
the idea the concept of the video. We
look at the channel style
uh that you do your titles and then we
try to to remix it
uh using the concept you put in or we
looked at the top outliers on one of 10
and see if there's one that makes sense
with the concept I have in mind. So,
well, this one's pretty good. Five data
trends that will define 2026. What you
can then do, which is really cool, is
the three methods of changing that
title. Then we can go with
uh turn into a question. So, not all of
these will be good, but that's where you
judge which one you think will lead to
the most click for the audience you're
targeting. So, that's turning a
statement into a question and you can do
it vice versa. Number two is is just
uh change changing the words, but then
number three
is uh
add emotional
trigger power word
and make it capitalize so we all see it
here. Now, it becomes five shocking data
trends that will define 2026. Just right
there, this makes it a lot more
appealing than just five data trends.
Now, it's five shocking. Obviously,
doesn't need to be all caps, but uh or
five
um or the the future like the word
future, hits, the word powerful hits,
critical is pretty good as well. So,
you're trying to find different ways of
using those uh power words.
>> Very cool. I didn't know we could add
like this second instruction
in the the title generator here. That's
very useful.
>> And here's a proof of why changing
titles is so important. Basically, oh,
and finding multiple variations of a
title. For example, this channel here uh
created I did I built a tool to predict
how much money I'll make. He turned it
into I've created a monster, and that
led to uh a video stuck at 10,000 views.
Uh you see the immediate change, and
it's actually now at 88,000 views.
Or this one, uh which is a creator we've
worked from zero, actually, uh Callaway.
We basically turned the the dopamine
ladder trick that gets viewers addicted
to your videos. Turned it into how to
become a storytelling genius. And that
video that was stuck in like 10, 20,000
views, only a title, that's just a title
change, became a 150,000
views video. Always try to understand
why things do well, right? Here,
basically, we changed the um the angle
of towards dopamine, which uh which is
an interest topic that that went viral a
bit everywhere.
But we made we put the focus on on
storytelling, which we knew uh worked
well in the past. Had 2 million views.
Uh one of them had 2 million views with
the storytelling angle. So, we transform
it here, but we did keep the dopamine
ladders uh in the title to keep the
intrigue.
And so, combining all that together led
to an explosion in views.
>> Okay, so now that we've covered research
and titles, the obvious next step is
thumbnails. So, what are the most
important aspects for us to understand
about thumbnails?
>> Yes. So, when you're looking at
thumbnails from videos that have
performed well, You're trying to
understand why they did well. And there
are two things you're trying to
understand. One is what is the composite
composition, and two, what are the
elements that are part of that
composition?
Um
See why they did well, and see if
there's a way to mix into your for your
own channel. All right. So, so here
you're trying to find uh a thumbnail,
right? So, for Mike, uh with who we
worked, basically did this video, Can
You Stop a Bullet With an Arrow? Couple
months prior. Well, what we see in the
composition is like Mike, the weapon,
and the object getting crushed. And so,
that was transferred into how
uh into the whip video. Mike, whip, and
foam getting destroyed. And fun fact, uh
I still remember like uh I was thinking
of all all kinds of object. It could
have been a brick, a tree, a car, a
house
uh that's getting uh destroyed. But why
I chose a phone was because everyone has
a phone. Everyone understands
how uh how hard it is. Everyone has
dropped a phone, so you know how solid
it is. And so, seeing it destroyed like
that uh
ent- entices you to to click more.
And so, seeing that composition, but
then just changing the elements in it
then became
a big stable on on on the channel. And
that actually led to other channels
taking that composition, and then
transforming into their own style for
their own niches. And then you have also
uh the next level is uh what I call uh
which is uh external. Basically, here's
an example of
uh of a scene in
uh in an anime called Naruto, where I
remember the intensity of it. And that I
wanted to transfer it for for a
thumbnail for a client, and that led to
this uh character getting executed, or
this um
guy going through a hard workout.
Basically, you're able to transfer
literally from anything, just uh like
ideas from any anywhere, and see if you
can replicate it to create the same
level of intensity. And uh you can see
it here as well. Uh this movie poster
became a 9 million views video
once remixed, or this one became a 3.7
million views for Dot Ford. That That's
how you're you're taking inspiration
from literally anything and then taking
that data and transforming for your for
your own thumbnail. And just like ideas
and titles, we have a bunch of best
practices for thumbnails. Like
we try to aim for three main elements.
We like to have it as
as fresh and new as possible as well,
while taking inspiration of different
compositions all around.
The squint test, bottom right, you try
to not have any text there since there's
the timestamp. Little things like that
adds
more probably that a person will click
on that video. Just like titles, you
always want to try to
find different thumbnails, test them,
and see what works. For example, uh
here is a video of a
of me interviewing Will Tennyson. It was
stuck at literally 3,000 views for the
longest time. But then we we kept
changing titles, thumbnails, and then
because I was so bullish on on the
video, and that that led to to over half
a million views video. Or here, you have
the worst enemy of Tesla becoming why
Apple and Tesla are scared of this
genius. You see the title thumbnail
change, super simple. And that's
literally the only change we did on that
channel, 180 days after upload. So after
6 months. So it's never too late. So
doing so led to an extra 2 million views
video. And so you're really missing out
if you're not trying to find like as as
as as many thumbnail concepts as
possible and that's also why we built
the thumbnail generator which I can show
now.
>> While you're loading that up, is it
really never too late to make these
changes? Like we've had some videos in
the back catalog that I just look at and
it's like wow, the the click-through
rate on this is so far below what is
typical. I worry that it will even get
impressions to test new packaging
changes. Are there ever times where you
think it's just too far gone?
>> No, yeah, it's true. So, first there's
we look at if the video had like a good
retention, right? If it didn't have a
good retention, then there's no point.
When I mean by good retention is not
again the number, but it's more like was
it a flatline? Was it like was it really
lower than than most other videos of the
same time length? Now, if after at some
point you've tried a lot, then it's time
to move on onto new videos for sure.
>> All right, let's see how this thumbnail
generator works.
>> Basically, we we built this thumbnail
generator where again you can put in
your channel. You can either put
your a title or a a thumbnail concepts
or a video idea and you put it in and
then you you'll get
your thumbnail generator in literally 1
to 2 minutes maximum. It works in
literally any niche and it'll take the
context of your back catalog, understand
the visual style, and then transform it
into
your next thumbnail. Like we we
generated this for for some in in your
community.
You can put it at as much
information as possible and they'll lead
to to create to creating the the
thumbnail you have in mind. What's
really cool is that you can also add in
your your face to be sure it creates
it takes your face, but if not, normally
it'll it'll take from your back catalog.
But another thing is you can add objects
or assets that you normally use inside
your your channel and you add it in and
it'll it'll understand that. But also
what's cool is you can do like the most
random sketch on a piece of paper and
it'll create a thumbnail
from what it understands on on the
sketch.
>> So, what I like about this is from a
workflow perspective, what you can do is
be on the homepage,
click random, find an outlier that you
think is interesting,
remix that outlier from your channel on
that.
Take that idea over to the title
generator and play around and find a
title that you like the most. And then
drop that title in the thumbnail
generator here and you have the whole
package.
>> Exactly.
>> Richard, thanks for sharing so much with
us here and showing us how One of Ten
can make this research process a lot
easier. If folks who are watching this
want to try One of Ten, where should
they go?
>> If you want to try it out, we actually
have a promo on oneof10.com where it's
$1 for the first month for you to try it
out. You can try the title generator,
thumbnail generator, outlier search,
everything. And you'll see that you'll
be saving money and time. And if you
want more help on a one-on-one basis,
consulting, we currently have a 30% off
where people can
again go on in the link below to to book
a call with us. We'll see if we're a
match to to work with you.
>> Cool. I'll make sure we have those links
at the top of the description. Richard,
thanks for stopping by. If you want to
learn how to make great thumbnails,
watch this video with David Altizer.
He'll show you how to make click-worthy
thumbnails even if you're not a designer
yourself.